# Final Project for Modeling Social Data, 2019

Deniz Ulcay, Vatsala Swaroop, Ongun Uzay Macar (du2147, vs2671, oum2000)

This repository has code to attempt to replicate and extend the results in Comparing Random Forest with Logistic Regression for Predicting Class-Imbalanced Civil War Onset Data by David Muchlinski, David Siroky, et. al., October 22, 2015

A complete report of our results is in `05_final_report.pdf`, which can be generated by cloning this repository and running `make` to execute the commands in the `Makefile` file. All data are in `data/` and any original source code provided by the authors is in `authors_original_code/`. We have also added an `06_analysis_and_comparison.pdf` and corresponding .Rmd file where we make final comments and do a comparison between the models we have implemented. Commands to generate these are included in the Makefile. 

These correspond to the files we have submitted before the deadline. As the final product, please kindly refer to files inside ```revised_version```. This version includes the latest revised .Rmd files and the corresponding PDF files. When compared, they don't have a lot of differences except a few additional comments and clearing up any ambiguity especially in the analysis and comparison PDF. We decided to do this in order to respect the deadline and not violate any requirements. To run them, you can copy and paste them in the original repository so that they can access the `data` folder.

CAUTION: The `make` command takes around an hour (in our setup), specifically due to 2 models that are trained in ```05_final_report.Rmd```. Model trainings for author specification (4) can be commented in the .Rmd in order to prevent large runtimes and a faster PDF generation. However, it should be noted that these two models are considered to be important in our extension. Although in the worst case the final report PDF takes a long time, the analysis and comparison PDF will be generated quickly and contains pretty much all crucial information (except details about replications and data processing).

The repository is structured as follows:

1. `01_get_original_data.sh` gets the original Hegre and Sambanis (2006) dataset. We only use this dataset for data visualization and data comparison. The original datasets used by the authors were acquired from Harvard Dataverse, but we are not pulling the data through any script as we couldn't find any viable download link. 
2. `05_final_report.Rmd` analysis both the original and new data to replicate and extend the results of the original paper, and produces the final report `05_final_report.pdf`
3. `06_Analysis_And_Comparison.Rmd` analysis both the original and new data to replicate and extend the results of the original paper, and produces the final report `06_analysis_and_comparison.pdf`.

----
